Moving the world headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
out of Brooklyn, New York,
which has been there over a hundred years,
and to take it upstate
into a rural setting,
is a monumental task.
From the first moment
that the Watchtower representatives
came to the town,
they came with their concept
and what they wanted to do.
I would say that they were
very professional from day one.
They expressed a great willingness
to be cooperative.
They wanted to understand our process,
and they wanted us
to understand
what they intended to do.
When we come into a community,
we’re not developing
something and moving on.
We’re developing it
to live and work in.
And so we want it to be also
agreeable with the community
and have their input on it.
The location is surrounded
by a pristine park
that’s been preserved.
And for them to go in there
and clean that site up
—remove the environmental issues—
to me is just a total home run
for not only the town of Warwick
but the state of New York.
The state forest
was working with us
on what our facility
would look like from the hikers
and the trails
and so forth around there.
And so early on,
we did an exercise where we actually
measured the tops of the buildings
and put a balloon up there,
and then from the various trails
in the area
could verify that they
would not be seen.
Everything that our planning board
asked for during the process
was, you know,
very readily given,
there were no complaints.
They said: “Yes, we want to do this right.
We want to work with you.”
And then good dialogue
throughout the construction project,
especially the beginning phase,
helped us understand
where we needed to adjust
and to accommodate
our neighbors.
My overall experience
with Watchtower has been,
I guess, in one word:
professionalism, attention to detail.
They don’t cut any corners.
I mean, sometimes there are companies
trying to save money here and there,
trying to cut a corner here and there.
And I’ve never witnessed anything like that,
working with this organization.
I’ve been here
since the project started.
many times doing inspections.
I’ve never worked around so many
professional people
who have the same goal.
Any questions I had
from reviewing the project
to doing the inspections
just went so smoothly.
Everyone is always on top
of any situation that may arise.
There are
always self-inspections
and just the tenacity
to just keep going day after day,
you know, dedicated crews
always to fix any problems that may arise.
I’ve really, actually,
never had
the opportunity to work
with a more inviting group.
Every time I come by the site,
it’s just a pleasure.
You know, you don’t really,
you don’t get to have that experience
in construction all the time,
so it’s refreshing, really.
What was interesting
about our project is
we had contractors and volunteers together
—men and women—
and coming from different parts
of the country.
Most of the workforce
here are volunteers,
but I find that term
misleading because,
you know, everybody
that I worked with was
completely professional
and very well-trained.
They’re so professional;
it’s just wonderful.
I wish that all the projects were like this,
to tell you the truth.
Everybody was
really courteous, polite,
and, you know, morale was
at an all-time high here.
Out of the 14-plus years
that I have been with the planning board,
I’d have to say the best applicant
to work with—bar none.
Really, this organization
and this job site really are
a testimony to how
one’s spirituality,
how important it is
to every day,
you know, every aspect in life.
We can really see
that the community loves their area.
They love their town;
they love their neighborhood;
they love their community.
And it’s nice to work with people like that,
because we too are good stewards of the land.
We too want to enjoy the community,
want it to be safe
and not only environmentally
but in other ways.
And so it’s really nice to see
the devotion that these folks have
to having a good place
for their families to live.
And we’re very excited
to be a part of that community.
We’re excited about the concept that this
is going to be the world headquarters.
We understand that the members
of the Jehovah Witnesses
will be coming to visit the site.
It will be on their list
of things to do,
which we find exciting.
There are going to be thousands
of visitors each year
from around the world.
They’re going to be coming
to see the facilities
and to see the community
and the neighborhood that we live in.
They’re regular folks that will also come
to enjoy what we know
here in Warwick as just
one of the most beautiful spots
in New York,
and even in the United States.
We think that it’s going to be
a great boost for our community.
We’re excited about it,
and we welcome it.